---
layout: post
title:  "rOpenGov"
date:   2013-12-09 18:53:45
categories: general

excerpt: "rOpenGov: R Ecosystem for Open Government Data and Computational Social Science"

author:
  name: Leo Lahti
  image: leo.jpg
---

## R Ecosystem for Open Government Data and Computational Social Science 

Hello world !

This is to announce the [rOpenGov](http://ropengov.github.io) project
and encourage new contributions to promote community-driven
development of R tools for open government data and computational
social science.

A community of independent package developers around open goverment
data analytics is now emerging at rOpenGov. Independent
[projects](http://ropengov.github.io/projects/) dedicated to
[US](https://github.com/rOpenGov/govdat),
[Russia](http://markuskainu.fi/rustfare/index.html),
[Finland](http://louhos.github.io/sorvi/),
[Poland](http://smarterpoland.pl),
[Austria](https://github.com/skasberger/grazwahl2012), and
[OpenStreetMap](http://osmar.r-forge.r-project.org/) have already
joined in; more are coming and we will keep you posted through this
blog.

The rapidly emerging governmental and other open data streams provide
novel opportunities for social sciences, data journalism, and citizen
participation across the globe while computational tools to utilize
these resources are lacking.  A community-driven software ecosystem
provides a scalable solution and a potential to revolutionize the
field, taking advantage of the lessons learned in
[Bioconductor](http://www.bioconductor.org),
[rOpenSci](http://ropensci.org), and related projects. The umbrella
site focusing on open government data R tools will give added
visibility and recognition for independent package developers, an
opportunity to attract contributors, and a forum for exchanging ideas
and information.

The project is in beta, and more information will be added soon.  You
can follow us on [rOpenGov blog](http://ropengov.github.io/),
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/ropengov),
[Google+](https://plus.google.com/u/0/communities/108289259916380218460),
and IRC (ropengov@Freenode). If you are working on related projects,
don't hesitate to get in touch!

<!--[get in touch](contact.html)-->


[jekyll-gh]: https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll
[jekyll]:    http://jekyllrb.com
